Quarkus Infinispan demo (#1)
infinispan-demos/harry-potter-quarkus: README.md

# Quarkus demo: Infinispan Client

This example showcases how to use Infinispan client with Quarkus.
* Create stores dynamically
* Simple get/put operations
* Full-text query
* Continuous query

Uses Quarkus features, such as
* REST web-service
* Web Socket
* Task Scheduling
* Application properties
* Application lifecycle events listeners

# Before running the demo

Quarkus uses [Infinispan Remote Client](http://infinispan.org/docs/dev/user_guide/user_guide.html#client_server).
You need to have an Infinispan Server running before you run this demo.

Option 1: Use Docker `docker run -it -p 11222:11222 jboss/infinispan-server:latest`

> Option 2: Download and run the server

Reviewer: For some reason the rendering on this is putting it on the same line instead of next according to github. We should fix this later, but won't let it hold it back any further.

Author: corrected this

# Quarkus demo: Infinispan Client

This example showcases how to use Infinispan client with Quarkus. 

# Run infinispan server

- Running with docker `docker run -it -p 11222:11222 jboss/infinispan-server:latest`
- Download the server from `http://www.infinsispan.org` and run `./bin/standalone.sh`

# Harry-Potter demo

> The demo will load characters and spells. Characters do execute spells, and we want to monitor who is in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The demo will load characters and spells. Characters can execute spells, and we want to monitor who is in
```

> Hogwarts and is executing magic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hogwarts and performing magic.
```

A Character has an id, name, biography and type (other, student, teacher, muggle).
A Spell has an id, name and description.

> A Spell is performed by a character. This character can or cannot be at Hogwarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Spell is performed by a character. This character may or may not be at Hogwarts.
```

## Data loading
`DataLoader` class loads characters and spells in two separate stores.
This is done on startup time

## Magic is going on
[Hogwarts Magic Creator](src/main/java/org/acme/infinispanclient/service/HogwartsMagicCreator.java) is going to emulate

> characters performing some magic. Randomly will pick up a character and a spell, and perform the magic!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
characters performing some magic. It will randomly pick a character and a spell to perform (if they can)!
```

> Characters in Hogwarts are teachers and students. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Characters in Hogwarts are teachers or students. 
```
Can there not be another type in Hogwarts? (other or muggle)

Author: Not in my monitoring demo haha

Reviewer: I think I was getting confused about this, which I mentioned at https://github.com/infinispan-demos/harry-potter-quarkus/pull/1#discussion_r263526255

> ## Search Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Search
```

[A simple REST service](src/main/java/org/acme/infinispanclient/CharactersResource.java) is available to query

> characters by id or perform a full-text search on top of the name or the biography. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
characters by id or perform a full-text search of the name or the biography. 
```

## Magic Socket

> [A socket](src/main/java/org/acme/infinispanclient/HogwartsMagicSocket.java) that performs Continuous Query make possible to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[A socket](src/main/java/org/acme/infinispanclient/HogwartsMagicSocket.java) that performs a Continuous Query making it possible to
```
Is a socket some sort of Harry Potter reference? I am not familiar with it.

Author: I don't think so

Reviewer: Should this be `HogwartsMagicWebSocket` instead?

Author: renamed

> monitor which characters in Hogwarts are now performing some magic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
monitor which characters in Hogwarts are currently performing magic.
```
I am thinking we should mention that the query doesn't have to go to the server, and it is all stored in the client app itself.

Author: I'm going to add the link for the continuous query and put what you wrote there too

# Run the demo in dev mode

> In dev mode, just run `mvn clean compile quarkus:dev`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run in development mode, just run `mvn clean compile quarkus:dev`. This allows for hot swapping the application, so you can tweak parts of it and it will automatically redeploy.
```

Go to `http://localhost:8080` and monitor the magic!

> You will be connected to the monitoring socket and you will find there the links to perform some REST search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be connected to the monitoring socket and links to perform a REST based search.
```

> # Run the demo 

Reviewer: Should we not mention how to run the demo using native binary from command line as well?

Author: I need to rework the native part, yes

1) `mvn clean package`

2) `java -jar target/harry-potter-quarkus-runner.jar`

# Native mode and deploying in Openshift
Compile the application in native mode:

> `mvn package -Pnative -Dnative-image.docker-build=true`

Reviewer: What is the extra `-Dnative-image.docker-build=true` used by?

Author: By default, the native image is tailored for your operating system (Linux, macOS, Windows etc). Because the Docker container may not use the same executable format as the one produced by your operating system, we will instruct the Maven build to produce an executable from inside a Docker container:

mvn package -Pnative -Dnative-image.docker-build=true

I need to rework this part

# Quarkus demo: Infinispan Client

This example showcases how to use Infinispan client with Quarkus.
* Create stores dynamically
* Simple get/put operations
* Full-text query
* Continuous query

> Uses quarkus features, such as

Reviewer 2: s/quarkus/Quarkus/

Author: ok 💃

* REST web-service
* Web Socket
* Task Scheduling
* Application properties
* Application lifecycle events listeners

# Run infinispan server

> - Running with docker `docker run -it -p 11222:11222 jboss/infinispan-server:latest`

Reviewer: Should mention you only have to do one or the other.

Author: ok

- Download the server from `http://www.infinispan.org` and run `./bin/standalone.sh`

# Harry-Potter demo

The demo will load characters and spells. Characters can execute spells, and we want to monitor who is in
Hogwarts and performing magic.

A Character has an id, name, biography and type (other, student, teacher, muggle).
A Spell has an id, name and description.

> A Spell is performed by a character. This character may or may not be at Hogwarts.

Reviewer 2: I would use backticks for the class names.

Author: ok

## Data loading
`DataLoader` class loads characters and spells in two separate stores.

> This is done on startup time

Reviewer 2: I would have used `at startup time` ?

Author: ok

## Magic is going on
[Hogwarts Magic Creator](src/main/java/org/acme/infinispanclient/service/HogwartsMagicCreator.java) is going to emulate
characters performing some magic. It will randomly pick a character and a spell to perform (if they can)!
Characters in Hogwarts are teachers or students. 

## Search
[A simple REST service](src/main/java/org/acme/infinispanclient/CharactersResource.java) is available to query
characters by id or perform a full-text search on top of the name or the biography. 

## Magic Socket
[A socket](src/main/java/org/acme/infinispanclient/HogwartsMagicSocket.java) that performs a Continuous Query making it possible to
monitor which characters in Hogwarts are currently performing magic.

# Run the demo in dev mode
To run in development mode, just run `mvn clean compile quarkus:dev`. This allows for hot swapping the application, so you can tweak parts of it and it will automatically redeploy.
Go to `http://localhost:8081` and monitor the magic!

> You will be connected to the monitoring socket and links to perform a REST based search.

Reviewer 2: There's something weird with this sentence, probably a verb missing or something: "be connected to... and links"

Author: yes, sounds weird, reformulating, thanks!

# Run the demo 

- `mvn clean package`
- `java -jar target/harry-potter-quarkus-runner.jar`

# Native mode and deploying in Openshift
Compile the application in native mode:

`mvn package -Pnative -Dnative-image.docker-build=true`

> TBD

Reviewer 2: Do you still plan more work on it?

Author: Yes, I was about to post just after like a micro guide to 1) install minishift 2) install the operator 3) build and push your image 4) enjoy your app in openshift
Unfortunately the operator is based on 9.4.6.Final and this version of the server does not work with quarkus version. This should be fixed soon enough
